BREAKING.md, before:

# Breaking Changes

This is a comprehensive list of the breaking changes introduced in the major version releases of Ionic Framework.

## Versions

- [Version 8.x](#version-8x)
- [Version 7.x](./BREAKING_ARCHIVE/v7.md)
- [Version 6.x](./BREAKING_ARCHIVE/v6.md)
- [Version 5.x](./BREAKING_ARCHIVE/v5.md)
- [Version 4.x](./BREAKING_ARCHIVE/v4.md)
- [Legacy](https://github.com/ionic-team/ionic-v3/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md)

## Version 8.x

- [Browser and Platform Support](#version-8x-browser-platform-support)
- [Components](#version-8x-components)
  - [Button](#version-8x-button)
  - [Content](#version-8x-content)
  - [Datetime](#version-8x-datetime)
  - [Picker](#version-8x-picker)
  - [Searchbar](#version-8x-searchbar)

<h2 id="version-8x-browser-platform-support">Browser and Platform Support</h2>

This section details the desktop browser, JavaScript framework, and mobile platform versions that are supported by Ionic 8.

**Minimum Browser Versions**
| Desktop Browser | Supported Versions |
| --------------- | ----------------- |
| Chrome          | 89+               |
| Safari          | 15+               |
| Firefox         | 75+               |
| Edge            | 89+               |

**Minimum JavaScript Framework Versions**
| Framework | Supported Version     |
| --------- | --------------------- |
| Angular   | 16+                   |
| React     | 17+                   |
| Vue       | 3.0.6+                |

**Minimum Mobile Platform Versions**
| Platform | Supported Version      |
| -------- | ---------------------- |
| iOS      | 15+                    |
| Android  | 5.1+ with Chromium 89+ |

<h2 id="version-8x-components">Components</h2>

<h4 id="version-8x-button">Button</h4>

- Button text now wraps by default. If this behavior is not desired, add the `ion-text-nowrap` class from the [CSS Utilities](https://ionicframework.com/docs/layout/css-utilities).

<h4 id="version-8x-content">Content</h4>

- Content no longer sets the `--background` custom property when the `.outer-content` class is set on the host.

<h4 id="version-8x-datetime">Datetime</h4>

- The CSS shadow part for `month-year-button` has been changed to target a `button` element instead of `ion-item`. Developers should verify their UI renders as expected for the month/year toggle button inside of `ion-datetime`.
   - Developers using the CSS variables available on `ion-item` will need to migrate their CSS to use CSS properties. For example:
      ```diff
      ion-datetime::part(month-year-button) {
      -  --background: red;

      +  background: red;
      }
      ```
<h4 id="version-8x-picker">Picker</h4>

- `ion-picker` and `ion-picker-column` have been renamed to `ion-picker-legacy` and `ion-picker-legacy-column`, respectively. This change was made to accommodate the new inline picker component while allowing developers to continue to use the legacy picker during this migration period.
  - Only the component names have been changed. Usages such as `ion-picker` or `IonPicker` should be changed to `ion-picker-legacy` and `IonPickerLegacy`, respectively.
  - Non-component usages such as `pickerController` or `useIonPicker` remain unchanged. The new picker displays inline with your page content and does not have equivalents for these non-component usages. 

<h4 id="version-8x-searchbar">Searchbar</h2>

**iOS**

- The default background color opacity has been increased from `0.07` to `0.12`. This change was made to match the native iOS search bar background color opacity.
- The default background color has been changed from `$text-color-rgb` to `118, 118, 128`. This change was made to match the native iOS search bar background color.

Commit message:

fix: revert bg color change to maintain dark mode support

BREAKING.md, after:

# Breaking Changes

This is a comprehensive list of the breaking changes introduced in the major version releases of Ionic Framework.

## Versions

- [Version 8.x](#version-8x)
- [Version 7.x](./BREAKING_ARCHIVE/v7.md)
- [Version 6.x](./BREAKING_ARCHIVE/v6.md)
- [Version 5.x](./BREAKING_ARCHIVE/v5.md)
- [Version 4.x](./BREAKING_ARCHIVE/v4.md)
- [Legacy](https://github.com/ionic-team/ionic-v3/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md)

## Version 8.x

- [Browser and Platform Support](#version-8x-browser-platform-support)
- [Components](#version-8x-components)
  - [Button](#version-8x-button)
  - [Content](#version-8x-content)
  - [Datetime](#version-8x-datetime)
  - [Picker](#version-8x-picker)
  - [Searchbar](#version-8x-searchbar)

<h2 id="version-8x-browser-platform-support">Browser and Platform Support</h2>

This section details the desktop browser, JavaScript framework, and mobile platform versions that are supported by Ionic 8.

**Minimum Browser Versions**
| Desktop Browser | Supported Versions |
| --------------- | ----------------- |
| Chrome          | 89+               |
| Safari          | 15+               |
| Firefox         | 75+               |
| Edge            | 89+               |

**Minimum JavaScript Framework Versions**
| Framework | Supported Version     |
| --------- | --------------------- |
| Angular   | 16+                   |
| React     | 17+                   |
| Vue       | 3.0.6+                |

**Minimum Mobile Platform Versions**
| Platform | Supported Version      |
| -------- | ---------------------- |
| iOS      | 15+                    |
| Android  | 5.1+ with Chromium 89+ |

<h2 id="version-8x-components">Components</h2>

<h4 id="version-8x-button">Button</h4>

- Button text now wraps by default. If this behavior is not desired, add the `ion-text-nowrap` class from the [CSS Utilities](https://ionicframework.com/docs/layout/css-utilities).

<h4 id="version-8x-content">Content</h4>

- Content no longer sets the `--background` custom property when the `.outer-content` class is set on the host.

<h4 id="version-8x-datetime">Datetime</h4>

- The CSS shadow part for `month-year-button` has been changed to target a `button` element instead of `ion-item`. Developers should verify their UI renders as expected for the month/year toggle button inside of `ion-datetime`.
   - Developers using the CSS variables available on `ion-item` will need to migrate their CSS to use CSS properties. For example:
      ```diff
      ion-datetime::part(month-year-button) {
      -  --background: red;

      +  background: red;
      }
      ```
<h4 id="version-8x-picker">Picker</h4>

- `ion-picker` and `ion-picker-column` have been renamed to `ion-picker-legacy` and `ion-picker-legacy-column`, respectively. This change was made to accommodate the new inline picker component while allowing developers to continue to use the legacy picker during this migration period.
  - Only the component names have been changed. Usages such as `ion-picker` or `IonPicker` should be changed to `ion-picker-legacy` and `IonPickerLegacy`, respectively.
  - Non-component usages such as `pickerController` or `useIonPicker` remain unchanged. The new picker displays inline with your page content and does not have equivalents for these non-component usages. 

<h4 id="version-8x-searchbar">Searchbar</h2>

**iOS**

- The spacing between the search input and the cancel button has increased from `8px` to `12px`.
