packages/vue/README.md, before:

# @ionic/vue

Ionic Framework integration for Vue 3 apps.

## Building

1. Install dependencies in `@ionic/core`:

```shell
cd core && npm install
```

2. Build `@ionic/core`. This will generate Vue component bindings in the `packages/vue` directory:

```shell
npm run build
````

3. Install dependencies in `@ionic/vue`:

```shell
cd packages/vue && npm install
```

2. Build `@ionic/vue`:

```shell
npm run build
````

## Tests

* E2E Tests are found in the `packages/vue/test-app/tests` directory and use Cypress.
* When making changes to `@ionic/vue` or `@ionic/vue-router` you can run `npm run sync` in the `test-app` directory to ensure that the test application is using your built changes. Be sure to build in the `vue` and `vue-router` directories first.
* Tests can be run in headless mode by running `npm run cypress`.
* If you want to open the Cypress test runner, you can run `node_modules/.bin/cypress open`.
* Bug fix and feature PRs should have new tests verifying the PR functionality.

## Contributing

See our [Contributing Guide](https://github.com/ionic-team/ionic-framework/blob/main/.github/CONTRIBUTING.md).

## Need Help?

Post your question on the [Ionic Forum](http://forum.ionicframework.com/).

Commit message:

docs(vue): update README instructions (#28175)
Issue number: N/A

---------

<!-- Please do not submit updates to dependencies unless it fixes an
issue. -->

<!-- Please try to limit your pull request to one type (bugfix, feature,
etc). Submit multiple pull requests if needed. -->

## What is the current behavior?
<!-- Please describe the current behavior that you are modifying. -->

The instructions doesn't provide clear directory paths for syncing local
changes.

## What is the new behavior?
<!-- Please describe the behavior or changes that are being added by
this PR. -->

- The instructions has clear directory paths for syncing local changes.
- Updated out of date information.

## Does this introduce a breaking change?

- [ ] Yes
- [x] No

<!-- If this introduces a breaking change, please describe the impact
and migration path for existing applications below. -->


## Other information

<!-- Any other information that is important to this PR such as
screenshots of how the component looks before and after the change. -->

N/A

packages/vue/README.md, after:

# @ionic/vue

Ionic Framework integration for Vue 3 apps.

## Building

1. Install dependencies in `@ionic/core`:

```shell
cd core && npm install
```

2. Build `@ionic/core`. This will generate Vue component bindings in the `packages/vue` directory:

```shell
npm run build
````

3. Install dependencies in `@ionic/vue`:

```shell
cd packages/vue && npm install
```

4. Build `@ionic/vue`:

```shell
npm run build
````

5. Install dependencies in `@ionic/vue-router`:

```shell
cd packages/vue-router && npm install
```

6. Build `@ionic/vue-router`:

```shell
npm run build
````

## Tests

* E2E Tests are found in the `packages/vue/test/base/tests` directory and use Cypress.
* When making changes to `@ionic/vue` or `@ionic/vue-router` you can run `npm run sync` in the [test-app directory](test/README.md#syncing-local-changes) to ensure that the test application is using your built changes. Be sure to build in the `vue` and `vue-router` directories first.
* Tests can be run in headless mode by running `npm run cypress`.
* If you want to open the Cypress test runner, you can run `node_modules/.bin/cypress open`.
* Bug fix and feature PRs should have new tests verifying the PR functionality.

## Contributing

See our [Contributing Guide](https://github.com/ionic-team/ionic-framework/blob/main/.github/CONTRIBUTING.md).

## Need Help?

Post your question on the [Ionic Forum](http://forum.ionicframework.com/).
